Added a How-To section for VSCode debugging (#1673)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/ides/vscode/vscode-how-to-debug-multiple-dapr-apps.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"

> linkTitle: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
update
```

> linkTitle: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"
```

> ---
> type: docs
> title: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"
> linkTitle: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"
> weight: 40000
> description:  "How to configure Dapr for multiple applications"
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Debug multiple Dapr applications"
linkTitle: "How-To: Debug Dapr applications"
weight: 40000
description:  "Learn how to configure VSCode to debug multiple Dapr applications"
---
```

> As your project grows you will experience a need to configure VS Code to handle multiple Dapr applications to debug your project. This guide will offer you a simple to follow explanation of the type of changes you will need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your project grows you may need to configure VS Code to debug multiple Dapr applications. This topic provides guidance on the steps you need to take.
```

> in order to ensure that your debugging experience is consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To follow along with the breakdown of configuration features please setup the [Hello World Quickstart Project](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/v1.0.0/hello-world) 

Reviewer 2: We should point to the main/master branch instead of 1.0.0

> To follow along with the breakdown of configuration features please setup the [Hello World Quickstart Project](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/v1.0.0/hello-world) 

Reviewer: No "please"s and no "will"s are per the writing guidance. Remove and change them all.

## Step 1: Configure launch.json
This file contains information regarding the configurations you run during the debugging process. For the Hello World project, you will have two applications running along side 2 Dapr instances.

> Each SDK supported will require its own tweaks for the launching of the program but each configuration will contain a Daprd run task and a Daprd stop task.

Reviewer 3: It's more about each service needing it's own configuration rather than SDKs. If you mean the languages than that is different (the below is needed for any NodeJS/Python app regardless if they are using the SDK or not)

### NodeJS

> ```json

Reviewer 3: Are these correct JSON snippets? Last time we reviewed they were incomplete. Can a user copy and paste these and they would work?

{
    "type": "pwa-node",
    "request": "launch",
    "name": "Nodeapp with Dapr",
    "skipFiles": [
        "<node_internals>/**"
    ],
    "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js",
    "preLaunchTask": "daprd-debug-node",
    "postDebugTask": "daprd-down-node"
}
```

### Python

```json
{
    "type": "python",
    "request": "launch",
    "name": "Pythonapp with Dapr",
    "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.py",   
    "console": "integratedTerminal",
    "preLaunchTask": "daprd-debug-python",
    "postDebugTask": "daprd-down-python"
}
```

> The 3 main parameters each configuration will need is a `request`, `type` and `name`. In these scenarios we need only the `launch` request as we will be launching each application and connecting to a running Daprd instance which we will launch right before the application itself.

Reviewer 3: The last sentence here is a bit confusing. Can you simplify? Lets remember some of our readers are not native English speakers

> `type` is related to the SDK you are trying to run and depending on the SDK it might require a extension found in the marketplace in order to properly configure, such as the [Python Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).

Reviewer 3: Again, I think you mean language rather than SDK right?

> `name` is just a unique name for the configuration which will come in useful once we create what is called a compound configuration which will allow you to call multiple configurations for your project.

Reviewer 3: No need for "just". Please remove "we"

Reviewer: And remove the "will"s. I suggest that you read the authoring guidance doc.  Write in the present tense

`${workspaceFolder}` is one of the supported VS Code variable references that are already predefined, its value is the workspace path of the opened VS Code workspace.

> The `preLaunchTask` and `postDebugTask` parameters will refer to what the program configuration will run before launching the actual Node app and commands it will run afterwards. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `type` is related to the SDK you are trying to run, and depending on the SDK it might require an extension found in the marketplace, such as the [Python Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).
- `name` is a unique name for the configuration, used for compound configurations when calling multiple configurations in your project.
- `${workspaceFolder}` is a VS Code variable reference, equal to the workspace path of the opened VS Code workspace.
- The `preLaunchTask` and `postDebugTask` parameters refer to the program configurations run before and after launching the application. See step 2 on how to configure these.
```

Use bullets instead of multiple sentences

> For this tutorial the `preLaunchTask` and `postDebugTask` both refer to task.json configurations that are related to Daprd commands.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Simplified the explanation above

## Step 2: Configure  task.json

You need to create the tasks mentioned in the launch.json for both application configurations in order for them to launch succesfully.

> ### Daprd Parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Daprd parameters
```

```json
{
    "allowedOrigins": "string",
    "appId": "string",
    "appMaxConcurrency": "number",
    "appPort": "number",
    "appProtocol": "grpc" | "http",
    "appSsl": "boolean",
    "args": "string[]",
    "componentsPath": "string",
    "config": "string",
    "controlPlaneAddress": "string",
    "enableProfiling": "boolean",
    "enableMtls": "boolean",
    "grpcPort": "number",
    "httpPort": "number",
    "internalGrpcPort": "number",
    "kubeConfig": "string",
    "logAsJson": "boolean",
    "logLevel": "DaprdLogLevel",
    "metricsPort": "number",
    "mode": "standalone" | "kubernetes",
    "placementHostAddress": "string",
    "profilePort": "number",
    "sentryAddress": "string",
    "type": "daprd"
}
```

> This is the full list of the parameters the Daprd tasks you need to create can use, not all are going to be necessary but for future customization its important to be aware.

Reviewer 2: We should add a table for:
- parameter
- Description
- Required
- Example

Reviewer 4: @AaronCrawfis @orizohar @msfussell  - We can add a new table here, or we can add a VS Code param column to this existing table and link to it: https://docs.dapr.io/reference/arguments-annotations-overview/

Thoughts?

Author: Created the table but do need some suggestions on exactly what an example placementHostAddress, sentryAddress and controlPlaneAddress would represent left those empty

Reviewer 3: > @AaronCrawfis @orizohar @msfussell - We can add a new table here, or we can add a VS Code param column to this existing table and link to it: https://docs.dapr.io/reference/arguments-annotations-overview/
> 
> Thoughts?

Aren't the VS Code params just daprd params? I think the daprd column should be enough

Reviewer 4: They are, but they are formatted slightly differently so it's not a copy paste solution.

Reviewer 3: > Created the table but do need some suggestions on exactly what an example placementHostAddress, sentryAddress and controlPlaneAddress would represent left those empty

I'm not sure these are relevant to self hosting mode. Most likely these should just be a local address. Need to confirm with @artursouza or @wcs1only

Author: Confirmed, they're just localhost addresses. Have updated the table.

Reviewer 5: These are localhost in case of local development.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Hello World Daprd Task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Hello World daprd task
```

For the following tutorial you need to have the following parameters filled out "appId", "httpPort", "metricsPort",  "label" and "type". There are more parameters depending on the specific Daprd command you're trying to run that you willneed such as "appPort" but those are dependent on what each application is trying to accomplish.

> #### NodeJs Task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### NodeJs task
```

```json
{
    {
        "appId": "nodeapp",
        "appPort": 3000,
        "httpPort": 3500,
        "metricsPort": 9090,
        "label": "daprd-debug-node",
        "type": "daprd"
    },
    {
        "appId": "nodeapp",
        "label": "daprd-down-node",
        "type": "daprd-down"
    }
}
```

> #### Python Task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Python task
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
